Initial code release (#1)
im-open/set-environment-variables-by-scope: README.md

# Set Environment Variables by Scope

This action takes specially formatted environment variables and/or an input file to emit scoped environment variables.

## Index <!-- omit in toc -->

- [Inputs](#inputs)
- [Outputs](#outputs)
- [Usage Examples](#usage-examples)
  - [Usage Instructions](#usage-instructions)
    - [`key-name`](#key-name)
    - [`scope-array`](#scope-array)
    - [`key-value`](#key-value)
- [Recompiling](#recompiling)
- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [License](#license)

## Inputs

| Parameter                 | Is Required | Description                                                                                                                               |
| ------------------------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `scope`                   | true        | The selection filter of the vars to be set                                                                                                |

Author: I'll clean this up to be more clear.

> | `scope`                   | true        | The selection filter of the vars to be set                                                                                                |

Reviewer: I like the change.

> | `input-file`              | false       | A file containing possible environment variable candidates with their associated scopes                                                   |

Author: Will clarify.

| `create-output-variables` | false       | Create output variables (in addiction to environment variables) for use in other steps and jobs, accepts true or false, defaults to false |

> 

Author: 👍🏽

## Outputs

Varies by usage, but is based on [`key-name`](#key-name) specified in environment variables and the `input-file` specified.

## Usage Examples

```yml
...
input:
  environment:
    description: The environment to deploy to.

>     required: true

Author: 👍🏽

>     required: true

Author: 👍🏽 This input is important to understanding the example as a whole, so I'll include the whole trigger fragment.

jobs:
  setup:
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    output:
      env-scope: ${{ steps.env-scope.output.ENVIRONMENT }}

    steps:
      - name: Set environment scope
        id: env-scope
        uses: im-open/set-environment-variables-by-scope@v1.0.0
        with:
          scope: ${{ workflow.inputs.environment }}
          create-output-variables: true
        env:
          ENVIRONMENT@dev d development: dev
          ENVIRONMENT@qa a: qa
          ENVIRONMENT@stage s stg: stage
          ENVIRONMENT@prod p production: prod

>       - run: echo "The current environment is ${{ env.ENVIRONMENT }}.

Author: 👍🏽

>     build:

Author: 👍🏽

      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2

>       - name: Build Workflow Environment Variables

Reviewer: I like this comment...I think it really helps to point out the difference here between the one in the first job.

        uses: im-open/set-environment-variables-by-scope@v1.0.0
        with:
          scope: ${{ needs.setup.outputs.env-scope }}
          input-file: ./env-vars.yml
        env:
          keyName1@dev qa stage prod: 'key value 1'
          keyName2@dev qa: 'key value 2 lower'
          keyName2@stage prod: 'key value 2 upper'

      - name: Display Env Var
        uses: actions/github-script@v5
        with:
          script: |
            console.log("Env", ${{ needs.setup.outputs.env-scope }})
            console.log("keyName1", ${{ env.keyName1 }})
            console.log("keyName2", ${{ env.keyName2 }})
            console.log("inFileName1", ${{ env.inFileName1 }})
            console.log("inFileName2", ${{ env.inFileName2 }})
...
```

> 

Author: I can show the file that went into the example.

> ### Usage Instructions

Author: Added a secrets example section.

The format of the `env` variable and the `input-file` contents are the same and follows this format:

`[key-name]@[scope-array]: [key-value]`

#### `key-name`

The resulting environment variable name. It does accept a wide variety of name convention formats including spaces, dashes, periods, and underscores. While it's been tested and found to be fairly flexible, it is possible to make environment variable names that aren't usable by one or more of the target action runner operating systems.

**_Key names intended for use as output variables for in workflow references can only contain letters, numbers, dashes and underscores._** Any other punctuation or space characters cannot processed and will cause errors when attempting to reference them later in a workflow.

#### `scope-array`

> A space delimited array of scope strings that the environment variable could be valid for.  The filter for which keys/values will be select from is the `scope` action input.

Reviewer 2: The second sentence reads a bit strangely to me. This was my stab at trying to make it better, but feel free to do something else.
```suggestion
A space delimited array of scope strings that the environment variable could be valid for.  The filter by which keys/values will be selected is the `scope` action input.
```
